we are going to be paying for this
scandal to the tune of 25 billion to 30
billion dollars a year forever I mean if
some crook with a you know 38 went into
a bank and held up the teller for $5,000
that bank would be they they'd be more
interested in getting their money back
from the would probably in finding and
prosecuting the crook yet here we've got
300 billion dollars and it's like you
know nobody kicked Congress we don't
care where Justice Department we don't
care we don't care where we enter that's
what they're basically saying of course
once they say it you don't care where
300 billion dollars went then you
realize there's something else going on
here I always found that anytime I found
the CIA people involved you almost
always think always found mafia people
they're not only that right in the
middle of the S&L crisis Thornburg the
US Attorney General at that time
disbanded the organized crime strike
forces which was the the people that
were doing the best job in investigating
the S&L problem
I liken it to sort of a puppet show this
is the way I look at the way the media
you've got a puppet show here and the
puppets are dancing and they're making
shadows on the wall and what the public
gets is a reporter sitting in audience
describing the shadows on the wall
that's sort of what we get what's really
happening is the shadows on the wall
being made by puppets for being
manipulated by puppeteers who are being
told what to do by the puppet master
behind the curtain you know and and
that's the way I kind of look at it and
you know what we need to do is find the
puppet master you know and describe how
it all works instead of just describing
the shadows on the wall and somehow that
I think that's the way the government
works - Pete Bruton broke the story in
the Houston post about the relationship
to the S&L scandal of the Mafia and the
CIA he'll tell his story right now on
alternative views
[Music]
[Applause]
in a front-page article dated February
the 4th 1990 Houston Post investigative
reporter Pete Bruton exposed an
explosive new angle to the Savings &
Loan scandal Bruton declared that during
an 8 month investigation into the role
of fraud in the nation savings and loan
crisis the post has found evidence
suggesting a possible link between the
Central Intelligence Agency and
organized crime in the failure of at
least 22 thrifts including 16 in Texas
moreover Bruton reported the CIA may
have used part of the proceeds from the
SNL fraud to help pay for covert
operations and other activities that
Congress was unwilling to support
publicly today on alternative views we
have Preet Bruton with us to discuss his
research into the great SNL robbery to
help us unravel this epic story we've
also invited David Armstrong the editor
of the Texas Observer who interviewed
Pete Bruton on the history of his
research in the April 5th Texas Observer
and who has researched the scandal
himself so Pete and David welcome to
alternative views thank you we not only
are going to hear from Pete about the
extent of the savings loan crisis and
the participation of the mob and the CIA
will also get his story about how the
story actually unfolded and how he wrote
all of this and the various connections
that were made and the people who helped
him with it but also perhaps even as big
a scandal is the fact that the major
established media ignored this story and
the Congress whitewashed it in as little
piddling investigation they did so we're
we've got a lot of really good
information to present to you an
alternative you Pete can you tell us
where we stand now with the SNL crisis
the magnitude we've done a lot of
programs on the S&L crisis the most
popular that we've ever done and it
seems to be getting worse and worse and
American people are getting fleeced more
and more I believe Bill Seidman
former director of the FDIC in his last
statement estimated the total loss
in the Savings and Loan debacle it
approximately two hundred and fifty
billion dollars now that's just the loss
itself to pay for that loss the United
States government will issue bonds and
there will be interest added on to that
and probably more than double the cost
bringing it up to probably 500 to 600
billion dollars that's kind of hard to
envision I think a better way to look at
it is to realize that we are going to be
paying for this scandal to the tune of
25 billion to 30 billion dollars a year
forever from now on because the bonds
that we're gonna be issued when they
become due to 20 or 30 years they're
just kind of roll them over and keep
rolling them over so this is gonna cost
us 25 to 30 billion dollars a year from
now on well we've had estimates as high
as a trillion or or so looking far down
the line and all the carrying costs etc
cetera cetera that are going to have to
be paid on this it's possible the only
way we're gonna know the the end result
is when the if the RTC sells all the
property that they're holding that's
when we'll know how much the losses were
on the loans that went for those
properties and depending on what the
real estate market does depend on what
the RTC does it could perhaps even
double the loss we don't know yet
they're not doing a very good job and
they're having big problems any time the
bureaucracy federal bureaucracy gets
involved in the and the workings of the
real estate market you know it's gonna
be a big mess and so we don't know yet
but 250 billion that's even said it's
probably very conservative
what we do know is that this is probably
the biggest financial scandal in
American history and we also know that
everything the government seems to be
doing to make the scandal better to deal
with it is making it worse so that
really this is an ongoing problem they
just don't have a solution for at this
time so let's try to unravel how this
all came about what is all
the origin of the S&L crisis well I
think the origin is sort of agreed and
human beings and the the the
circumstances are led to it were the
inflation in the late 70s caused the
interest rates to go up
and the SNL's were then caught in as big
interest rate rate squeeze where they
had all of their money out of mortgage
loans that were low interest five and
six percent that's where they were
making their income and yet they started
having to pay ten eleven twelve percent
for their deposits so in in its wisdom
Congress decided that the way you solve
that problem is to deregulate
quote-unquote the S&L industry let them
invest their money basically any way
they want to to get big returns so they
can pay for their deposits and that
essentially opened up the safe I mean it
was a you know that's why I look at
deregulation it opened up the safe to
anybody who had the temerity and the the
thievery in their hearts to walk in and
take the money out because that's what
it took and you saw all of these two-bit
developers that you know you know
couldn't get a job at a bank I'm sure
owning and buying and owning and running
savings of those like Don dicks and Ed
McBurney Jarrett Woods the whole crew
that we know so deregulation just opened
up the vaults there are also a lot of
instances of organized crime figures who
actually imprisoned track the
deregulation legislation through
Congress watching that waiting for it to
happen on the very day that Reagan
signed the bill into law there were
instances where developers sat around a
table trading the same pieces of
property around pumping up the prices in
anticipation of the possibility of being
able to borrow against these overly
inflated pieces of property so they're
they're the people who were going to
take advantage of this saw this thing
coming down the pipe and capitalized on
once it became available - and they knew
that they wouldn't have to pay any of
these loans back because they were all
insured by the taxpayers right so they
would take or give their buddies or take
out themselves
millions and millions of dollars alone
then default big deal I think there were
there are various layers of protection
between the people who ultimately ended
up with the money and any sort of
criminal problems that they might have
now where is this money now obviously
the people have it they've they've
squandered it in some ways but it's also
still in existence somewhere right we'd
like to know where it is I think
sometimes I'm the only person that wants
to know where it is because nobody in
the government has ever indicated any
desire to try to track the money and get
it back for us and it seems to be the
first thing that you want to do I mean
if some crook with a you know 38 went
into a bank and held up the teller for
$5,000 that bank would be they they'd be
more interested in getting their money
back from they would probably in finding
and prosecuting the crook yet here we've
got 300 billion dollars and it's like
you know nobody care Congress we don't
care where Justice Department we don't
care we don't care where we are that's
what they're basically saying of course
once they say it you don't care where
300 billion dollars went then you
realize there's something else going on
here
like let's focus for a couple of minutes
on this CIA
organized crime link that's another
explosive allegation that you made in
your research that there was some
connection between the CIA and organized
crime as you said this connection goes
back to intelligence services working
with the Mafia in the French Connection
in world war ii and different events
anti-communist cold war escapades since
then but what did you discover in
particular about organized crime CIA
connections in the S&L crisis how did
they work together and what were some of
the common connections we found that
that there were a couple of individuals
that were sort of at the intersection of
the CIA in the Mafia
we don't know really you know who was
telling who what to do we know that you
know azeema Renda Bibi Corson other
people in Florida primarily we're
working with the CIA at the same time
they were working with the Mafia and if
we tracked a lot of people back to
Castle Bank and Trust that have been
involved in that scandal which was a
scandal of mid 70s a bank in the Bahamas
that was laundering money for both the
Mafia and the CIA it was and it was set
up by an attorney in Miami named Paul
Helliwell an attorney in Chicago named
Burton Cantor Cantor had the mafia
connections hello L had mafia and CI kin
the hell away was part of the OSS he was
one of the originators yes yes he was
involved in the founding of the CIA and
Helliwell set up proprietaries for the
CIA okay now had course I'm here taking
mafia money from Las Vegas casinos down
to Central America to be used by the CIA
for the country's was just a country
connection some of it but it was going
on before that also was going on in the
early 80s whatever they were doing else
I mean they were doing a lot of other
than just Nicaragua a lot of places you
know it's a very symbiotic relationship
they both can gain okay
the this the Mafia can get the
get-out-of-jail-free card
okay and the CIA can get the expertise
that the Mafia has and launder and money
and also you know the muscle I mean the
the the implications of internet
violence and in addition that
deniability there that they're one step
away from the fraud in that case do you
have one good example that can
illustrate how for instance crime got
organized crime got in to the SNL
business and also the CIA connection
yeah there's there a number of examples
and I always found that any
I found the CIA people involved the
almost always thanked always found mafia
people there now there were some SNL's
they had to mafia didn't have the CIA
but it was me
every day you have to see how you had to
mafia this is an old tradition of course
in our country where the Mafia to see
how you do dirty things together I mean
it's nothing new nobody should be
shocked you know that it happened in the
SML crisis
we just had some indictments come down
17 indictments about three weeks ago in
a twenty thousand acre land deal in the
Florida Panhandle this was involving
approximately 200 million dollars most
of the money came from hill savings
alone in Red Hill Pennsylvania which was
a medium sized SML 20 billion 20 million
came from us little Savings and Loan in
the Valley Rio Grande Valley called
vision bank savings the money most of
them I'd say half of that money went to
the landowner that owned the land that
sold it to the crooks in that st. Joe
Paper Company which is part of the
Daponte Empire I mean part of the
richest one of the richest families in
the world God most this money and what
they did they used it to renovate and
upgrade a paper mill in Florida instead
of you know having to go out and borrow
the money or using their internal
capital they used this money the king
basically came from the American
taxpayers to upgrade their paper mill
another ten to fifteen million dollars
went offshore it was basically scraped
off the top and sent to the Isle of
Jersey which is a tax haven banking
haven in the English Channel the people
that we found controlling this money
manipulating it were involved both with
the Mafia and the CIA one of the the
money launderers and a miami attorney
named Lawrence Freeman who actually went
to jail for laundering money for a dope
dealer
who was also part of the guns for drugs
deal with CIA and the Contras in Latin
America Freeman was also laundering
money for Santo Trafficante
the mafia boss in Tampa Florida so he
Freeman actually drew up the land
contract for the sale this land okay the
man who bought it was a fella named
William Atkinson who was one of these
two-bit developers balancing across the
country ended up in Houston and all of a
sudden he's been able to borrow all this
money I can't go into too much detail
but he had some very powerful figures
behind him and 20 million dollars he
borrowed from his buddy
Robert Corson who had vision bank
savings Corson was a what they call an
asset of the CIA he took money cash from
Las Vegas casinos that were controlling
the Mafia down to Latin America that was
used by the CIA this was another example
of him doing things together of course
in control this S&L he got probably half
a million dollars scraped off the top on
this land deal Atkinson got probably a
million dollars scraped off the top st.
Joe Avery got seventy million ten
million goes to island Jersey there is a
a federal bureaucrat by the way who is
trying to track this my very courageous
very smart person he's trying to track
this ten million dollars and and he'd
been held up by the State Department
would not get behind his efforts to get
the banking records in the island Jersey
and the State Department kept saying
we're not going to help you until there
are some indictments well three weeks
ago we got the indictments so maybe that
will open that up there is some
indication and that's all I can tell you
right now indication that some of this
money may have been used to buy weapons
for Iraq
Robert Corson also had some interesting
political connections as well didn't it
yes he did Corson used to brag that he
had the County Judge of Harris County
John Lindsay who is one of the most
powerful prominent Republicans in Texas
in his hip pocket and he blends these
largest single political contribution
came from Robert Corson it was ten
thousand dollars
Lindsay went to Las Vegas with Corson
party went hunting with him to Mexico
Corson had a big party at his house for
Lindsay one time because now Lindsay is
sort of disavowing any knowledge of
course there you know and hardly made
the guy and in fact one time when I
interviewed Lindsay about course and one
of the questions yes was was he in jail
yet you know like I don't care what
happens to him now because he cared a
long time when he was getting $10,000 I
noticed in your article in the Texas
Observer in which you interview Pete
that we see the same people popping up
here and there from one coast to the
other with mafia and CIA relationships
and the same people there'd be some kind
of scandal over here and you see the
same people involved or maybe one step
away
people like Azima or William Beebe them
the Mafia man yes yeah baby is one of
the prime examples in Mario Renda Orenda
yeah then there was the muddy mayor of
Long Island he was the guy in his diary
before deregulation you know when Reagan
signed a deregulation business I think
we've hit the jackpot
Renda was following this bill through
Congress just waiting I mean like the
oklahoma sooners at the line i mean you
know they had their track shoes owned
just waiting until that bill went into
law and they were gonna take off and how
exactly were they going to use the SNL's
can you give us or a test case of how
they used the SNL deregulation to carry
out whatever scam they had in mind I
like to look at an SNL is a big black
box where you don't have to worry what
went on inside it you you have
here you look at the taxpayers dollars
the depositors dollars what's ended up
being taxpayers I was coming in on one
side and then going out here they come
go out there to the people that get the
money and don't just if you just
concentrate on that of course inside the
black box is where the criminality
occurred and that's what the FBI and the
Justice Department is going to have to
worry about figuring out because this is
where they falsified documents and
particularly the appraisal reports but
if you just look here's the taxpayers
money going in and here's going out that
makes it very simple and then it gives
you a better idea of you concentrate on
who got the money which is something
that no one wants to do the Justice
Department doesn't want to do it
Congress didn't want to do it but if you
look at that way who got the money then
it makes a lot of sense and forget about
all the complex real estate deals that
went on inside the black box because
that's that was just done too so no one
could figure it out so the reporters
couldn't figure it out so the
regulator's couldn't figure it out so
the Justice Department couldn't figure
it out and there's a lot of stuff that
it's extremely complicated but there are
people who can figure this now you just
look at who got the money then it makes
a lot of sense now we talked about just
one or two examples of mafia and CIA
relationships what was the extent of
this how many of these SNL's were
involved with a mafia and I see no we we
started out I believe we said 22 and at
the latest count it's something like 26
27 where we found mafia people CIA
together in the same savings alone
that's you know you're talking about
deposits of 15 billion dollars okay 15
this is just the ones we've looked at I
mean it it's almost as if any SNL you
look at you could find some of these
people in them I mean it was very
pervasive and particularly when he's
talking about Mario Renda and Herman
Beebe in red now baby both had strong
connections to the Mafia and the CIA and
they are all over the man
I mean rent a brokered money into 130
savings and loan be be controlled at
least 20 financial institutions in in
Louisiana and Texas and did they take
over the savings and loans and therefore
use the assets for their different
projects so when they went broke they
could just cut and run because their
depositors would be employed would be
insured by the FDIC is that how it
worked or did they take big loans out
from these SNL's from their projects
with the intention of never paying it
back well they did it very subtly and it
wasn't it wasn't like Beebe would go in
and buy savings alone or render what I
mean they controlled them yes but it was
two or three layers removed what for
instance look at Vernon savings that's a
very famous example Donna Dixon Dixon
bought Vernon savings with a loan from
em Bank in Dallas but Herman KB be
guaranteed that loan and arranged it so
that Dixon was really beholden to BB for
the money and in fact BB had an option
to buy equity in the SML because of his
guarantee of the bank loan okay so here
Dixon is the figurative fact Dixon had
it rains later that he wasn't even on
the board of directors are appeared in
any of the Vernon you know stockholders
support or anything like that he was he
had his company in the forefront so he
had even he was insulated from one layer
so he had this company called Dandi
financial that owned Vernon you know
then you look behind that and that's
Dixon it almost Dandi financial then you
look behind Dixon and you see Herman KBB
you know manipulating him and then you
look behind me BB and he started to
mafia in the CIA and what would be in a
way that they would actually scam money
from the S&L what would be B and his
mafia CIA connections do to get the
money out of the SNL's for their own
purpose
it's basically one way they got loans
okay forgot but it wasn't like a home
loan you know $100,000 home loan this is
like 20 million dollar loan on raw land
okay that might be worth a million
dollars and they've got all these
grandiose plan we're gonna build a
shopping center here in blah blah blah
and therefore say the land was up worth
1 million dollars in Dee Dee's buddy
owned land ok
so baby would get an appraisal three
million dollars and that's that's where
the cheated the cheating really occurred
in the appraisal process and I'm just
astonished that the Justice Department
has not really gone after the appraisers
more to get them and then flip them and
make them turn state's evidence because
that's where the real cheating went on
that's how you cheat you got a peaceful
and it's so easy to do in real estate
because you've got all of this ambiguity
about land values you've got all this
flex so here's a little piece of
properties worth a million dollars you
go out and you pay somebody ten thousand
dollars to say it's worth three million
dollars so you can use just stolen two
million dollars and as simple as that
and if the FBI comes after you say well
this this appraisal says he says worth
three million
I mean what the appraiser said so BB
gets a twenty million dollar loan or one
of his you know associates usually gets
a twenty million dollar loan from an SNL
that BB controls you know like Vernon
behind the scenes twenty million dollars
a piece of property is worth 1 million
dollars he pays his buddy that owns it 3
million okay and then he says I've got
70 million I'm gonna develop this lis he
goes out and he might put a straight in
or to look like he's and then he takes
the rest and he's he's audios he's gone
he's just stolen 19 million dollars okay
and what are you gonna do we're just not
talking about the SNL's alone involved
with the CIA in a mafia there are some
banks regular commercial banks
absolutely there are I think Pete's
already mentioned at least one in Kansas
City there are there are several around
the country where several of these same
figures and and others were involved in
similar activities were were engaged in
in CIA mob-related operations and the
fear is I think that there are going to
be more that the same things that we've
seen as a result of deregulation of the
SNL's may very well come about when the
banks are deregulated which is the which
is the current proposal on the table the
theory being I guess it worked so well
with this and else why not try it again
which is unbelievable and we contemplate
that with the grotesqueness of the
failure of these I know Pete can you
tell us a bit about how you developed
this story the insight story about how
the reporter came up with this some of
your sources and all this story started
the spring of 1987 when a business
reporter at the Houston post Greg C got
a call from anonymous anonymous call we
didn't know who the guy was telling him
to look into the failure of mainland
savings in Houston and so Greg began and
he got one name he's given name Howard
Pulver Greg began looking at the real
property records to see the loans that
mainland was making to Pulver in his
associates and there were thousands and
thousands of thousands of pages of
documents and the city of Houston Post
asked me to help Greg go through the
documents and I really wasn't too
excited about doing that at the time but
you know I did and we found out that
Pulver and his associates who were from
Long Island had taken about a hundred
million dollars out of mainland savings
and and left mainland with promissory
notes own apartment complexes and these
were run-down apartment complexes that
at the time were probably worth less
than 20 million dollars they're like 33
of them so here you had 100 million
dollars taken out versus 20 million
dollars at
they were worth and now they're probably
worth less than five million and most of
them have probably been sold
I mean taxpayers took a huge public
believe at least sixty million dollar
hit on that so Gregg and I began looking
at Pulver and his people and who are
these people and how did they get down
to mainland and we went up to Long
Island and started knocking on doors and
looking into it we found out that Pulver
lived right across the street from a guy
named Martin Schwimmer and Schwimmer was
Mario rendus partner that famous name
Mario Renda is now red dyes Schwimmer
had brokered almost a hundred million
dollars of deposits into mainland in
other words they had taken they were
taking deposits from people credit
unions things like unions right
yeah pension funds from all over the
country and then placing them in various
SNL's where they get the highest race
and of course Renda was doing deals with
the SNL's behind the scenes you know you
know you pay me 10% I'll put this so
much deposits you know and they were all
in what they call inked financing
Randall would put the money in and say I
want to put this much money into you're
a snail and you're gonna lend this to my
buddy over here okay so here we had
Rendon and Schwimmer brokering a hundred
million dollars in the mainland savings
a medium-sized S&L in Houston and then
we have Palmer his people taking out a
hundred million dollars that turns out
poverty swearer
our neighbors in Kings Point Long Island
which is a very exclusive bedroom
community in New York City
and we found was great I found that out
we knew we had a big stories they had
crime connections yeah they're Schwimmer
when fact was even indicted for
laundering money and buying bearer bonds
for for mafia so this was organized
crime just coming in from New York
coming in to Texas because they saw a
good target to raid yeah yeah you know
they weren't exactly met at the Harris
County line by the sheriff
these people you they couldn't come into
Houston unless they had had permission
from the organized crime people that
controlled Houston and which is the
Marcelo family out of New Orleans at
that time what was your first indication
that the CIA was involved well there was
a US prosecutor in Kansas City named
Lloyd Monroe who was following farhat
Azima who was an Iranian there was a
contract agent for the CIA had an
airline company called global
international Airways oh that's
proprietary airline of the CIA yes yeah
that is even owned that and he was Ziva
was involved in a bank there in Kansas
City and he was a director of it and it
failed the president was a killed in a
mysterious one car accident
the president's right-hand man was anthe
Russo a disbarred attorney had been
disbarred for racketeering he was a
mafia felon and Russo also worked for a
Zemon so as Eva had mafia and CIA
connections and Lord Monroe who was a a
prosecutor with the organized crime
strike force in Kansas City was
following a Zemon and when I was
following Rendon and I found read to
zimas Bank okay they're a little Bank in
fact that was the first place Renda was
caught with his links financing scam was
in this little Bank in Kansas City
azeema was involved with okay so I you
know eventually got into contact Lord
Monroe and I would writing these stories
about the Mafia and BB and Renda and I
would send him up to Lord and he kept
saying you're missing something really
big there's one big area
you're missing your many but he wouldn't
tell you what it was sounds kind of like
deep fault
give you a little bit but won't tell you
the whole thing
yeah and you know he was you know he was
really being you know a good prosecutor
not giving me information I mean when he
left the organized kind of strike force
he confirmed what I'm about to tell you
oh I see he couldn't tell you then
legally oh he got old no see I don't
think he felt right about till I see I
think if I found out and asked him he
would have confirmed it when he put you
on track well you didn't try no he's
talking about I was frustrated and then
one day after we'd been in the story for
a year and a half two years Greg got a
call from a woman in Houston Greg Greg
see he was the business report all he's
doing the work with okay who started
chewing him out for not digging deeper
on this story that story and Greg and I
went to see her and she said she had
worked for a man named Robert Corson who
had a savings alone and that Corson was
an asset of the CIA which I responded
time ever that time
what's a CIA asset I don't know anything
about but when she said that you know
kind of the light went off that was the
big thing I said I wonder if that's what
Loyd Munroe was talking about so I went
up to see I went up to Kansas City Lord
and he confirmed it that that's the
Zeeman had the CIA connections in fact
the CIA had sabotage and prosecution and
investigation prosecution of Azima had
stopped it basically had gone to the FBI
the FBI was investigating azeema told
them not to he's one of ours leave him
alone
is this where the term and got out of
jail free card
that's what you lations yes yeah one of
the FBI agents to investigate that told
me that you know that they were told
that Azima had it well they weren't told
the way they do they're the CIA when
they want to stop a prosecution or so
they don't go to the Justice Department
they don't go to yesterday they go to
the FBI the FBI and see I have a very
close relationship and there
there are actually examples in fact
there was one in in Miami an
investigation in the seventies of
Guillermo Hernandez Cartaya
where the CIA went to the FBI and got
them to stop the investigation but the
FBI had never told the US Attorney's
office they just shut it down and the
u.s. assistant US attorney was doing
this was very frustrated and angry and
mad in fact he filed FOI requests with
the FBI to find out what the CIA was
telling them of course he was denied it
but they had to tell him the number of
documents he was denied saying they were
like 20 of them regarding Cartaya so
that lets see the FBI could shut an
investigation down and not even tell the
US Attorney's Office because of this
relationship and that's what happened
with a Zemon yeah the CIA
somebody in the CIA went to somebody in
the FBI said leave this guy alone and so
it filtered down to the ranks till hit
the bottom the two FBI agents who are
investigating a Zima and they just got
the word by saying is one of the FBI
just told me well we found out that a
Zemon had a get-out-of-jail-free card
there are a couple of interesting
consequences of all that one is a x'mas
airline Global Eric Global Airways was
the airline used to fly some of the tow
missiles to Iran during the iran-contra
affair yeah what if you actually one of
his sister companies Co race a race
aviation which was owned by a x'mas
brother and I remember questioning a
x'mas trying to find out do you own race
no no I don't know that leave me alone
I've told everybody I don't own it well
after about 20 minutes of questioning I
finally got him to admit his brother
owned the other thing in terms of the
the stonewalling that the federal
officials did in terms of blocking
prosecutions that has an interesting
effect in terms of the human fallout
trying to put a human face on this story
is often hard but there's a very
poignant case I think in in the Kansas
City incident one of the people who they
were able to prosecute when they failed
to be able to go after the higher up
the bank was a gentleman by the name of
Fred figgy Mr figgy was a borrower at
Indian Springs and was prosecuted I
believe it was on 33 counts he had done
nothing more than borrowed the they
decided that there was insufficient
paperwork the bank had never demanded
more exact paperwork from from him or
the people who he was involved with for
their projects they were borrowing money
to develop in in Hawaii at the time mr.
Figg II ended up going to jail
I believe he spent two and a half years
in jail and for two of those years he
went untreated for cancer he was finally
his conviction was overturned on appeal
unfortunately he didn't get to live long
enough to see the final vindication he
died recently as a result of the cancer
that went untreated while he was in
prison boys play rough up at that level
well Pete you started writing this
incredible series in the Houston post
but the big boys up in Washington Post
and New York Times and that works they
didn't pay attention to it did they no
they didn't the AP picked up some of the
stories and ran them although there were
even problems with that sometimes the
Dallas office of the AP would pick it up
and it would get run in Texas papers but
for some reason the AP people in New
York City or Washington would not pick
it up and run it on the national water
so many of the stories rain in Texas but
never ran in the national wire did you
ever talk to them what was their
attitude do you think I talked the AP in
Dallas they were real gung-ho I know
that our editor Dave Bergen talked to AP
in Washington a lot and really railed at
them and they kept promising them they
were gonna do it the next time but they
never did I saw an article in The Daily
Texan which was investigating this why
in the world wouldn't this be all over
the pages of the New York Times all the
news of fit to print right and the
Washington Post in the nation's capital
and all the networks and the people at
the the big newspaper said all Houston
Post had some nothing newspaper doesn't
have any
ability and who's Pete Bruton anyway Oh
Pete what is your theory of why say that
Washington Post in the New York Times
and CBS and Time magazine didn't go into
the connection that you were making
between organized crime
SNL failures CIA etc because the S&L
crisis was a big story by this time it
was being written about nationally but
they missed this element that you were
investigating well I think you have to
back out yeah there were a lot of
stories written about the SNL's but they
weren't very good they didn't go into
any detail so just these broad overviews
that they got from their sources and in
Congress
very few of the big papers went in and
actually looked at particulars and loans
that have failed and really dug down and
found out why they failed and where the
money went the Philadelphia Inquirer did
a big story on Hill financial savings I
mentioned previously I don't think the
Washington Post or the New York Times
ever did or The Wall Street Journal for
that matter ever did any original
groundbreaking investigative reporting
on the S&L crisis why was that the case
do you think it's too hard I mean they
just you can't do it sitting in your
office in Washington New York City to go
into the courthouses and dig through the
records and actually figure out what was
going on and that's just not the way
they operate they wanted the documents
handed to them by official sources in
suits they've gotten lazy
I think that's lazy and it's arrogance
you know could there also be another
story for what in our story then we're
not going to do it we've got to break it
how much of it you think is the fact
that the Washington Post has had a long
relationship with the CIA a cozy
relationship with the CIA and the New
York Times is the prime newspaper of the
American power structure and their
ruling elite and they're not going to do
anything that digs too deeply and might
destabilize in the American people's
mind just the system itself yeah I think
you're right and we could go on about
the Washington Post's relationship the
CIA it
long it's very strong Katherine Graham
very I mean she made a speech to the CIA
I think last year you know and talked
about there are certain things that have
to be kept secret now you know which is
very strange attitude for a journalist
but you've got to understand the CIA it
controls a lot of information and it can
reward and punish a lot of reporters in
Washington in New York City you know if
they want to help somebody with a story
they can do it they want to hurt you
they can do it okay not only that it
controls a lot of information about
Congress I mean the CIA is is is so
anti-democratic is so inimical to the
idea of free people in democracy because
they are very secretive and they keep
everything secret and they opera operate
covertly and so you know they've got a
lot of information about a lot of things
that they can use I won't say it's
blackmail certainly is pressure
reporters and congressmen and probably
anybody else they wanted to so it's you
just hardly ever see original
investigative reporting on the central
intelligence agent now you would think
that the government wouldn't be
interested in in investigating this but
they whitewashed it to tell us about
that well the day after the first story
the post came out Frank annunzio
congressman from Chicago I believe came
out he's on the House Banking Committee
and he was going to do a big
investigation of this and of course
annunzio had his hand
yes Annelle cookie jar you know and
he had big problems I think he was
trying to divert attention away from him
to something else was he one of the
Keating five no but his his top aide
went playing golf with Keating all the
time and you know so there was a
relationship there Keating five and a
half there you know
so annunzio immediately jumped on this I
think he was told it's funny the way
that you stay away from this in fact in
his letter eventually to the the
Intelligence Committee the House
Intelligence Committee he passed the
buck to them you know you investigated
the CIA director way in Webster refused
to appear before nunzio's committee
saying I'm you know I'm not gonna appear
for you this is a matter for the House
Intelligence Committee and so nunzio's
people investigated some of my claims
and they confirmed the part about Azima
and the get-out-of-jail-free card
okay so that was enough annunzio says
we've confirmed some of this he kicked
it over the Intelligence Committee in
his letter it was all about the CIA
there wasn't one word about the Mafia
nunzio's letter which I thought very
curious yes but now the see the Senate
or the House Intelligence Committee is
controlled by the CIA anyway I think
they're either hip-pocket yeah I mean
you know you just don't want to buck the
CIA because they're so powerful because
they can operate its secret okay and
they don't have to tell anybody what
they're doing if you try to find out
they say national security there's also
a revolving door going on between the
committee and the CIA and I think Pete
discovered quickly that there was a
there was at least one character
involved in the investigation who drew a
lot of suspicion this is a man by the
name of childs who was the staff
director of the committee child had been
the Comptroller of the CIA the man who
knew where the money went
so there was possibly a vested interest
on his part to try to maintain some kind
of respectability for the CA and not
probe too deeply they conducted an
eight-month investigation at which time
they decided that there was nothing
there worth investigating
Speight confirming a lot of Pete's
allegations in fact the CIA admitted
that it had financial dealings with at
least four the institution's I had named
all that said that was standard you know
regular the same way they say about BCCI
mm you know just routine financial
transaction gathering information
yeah and that I believe it said five you
named five interested five individuals
did I add nine to my story had they had
had connections as he had done work for
him okay not only name six at that time
so five out of the six that I'd named
they said yeah they had worked for us at
one thing but there was nothing wrong
going on and we didn't have anything to
do with any of this
okay now that in itself should have sent
you know the New York Times Washington
Post really digging you know what they
ran a story so there's nothing House
Intelligence investigating there's
nothing to it how do you think the
stories talked about the four financial
institutions are the five individuals
that the CIA itself that was
unbelievable in itself that the CIA
would confirm that these people in had
connections these institution in these
people normally won't even do that I
think it figured there was so much
information already on the record that
they could not plausibly deny that there
was a connection but there's nothing to
it see I think part of the problem for
the establishment here is that if they
start investigating the CIA connections
here they uncover the CIA connections
with the Mafia and with this criminal
activity so this is where you had the
major D legitimating activity come in
here I think it's symptomatic that they
just left out the Mafia in this
preliminary pseudo investigation I think
there's one thing that everybody will
say now that the Mafia was deeply
involved the S&L crisis yet there has
never been a congressional investigation
event not only that right in the middle
of the S&L crisis Thornburg the US
attorney general at that time
disbanded the organized crime strike
forces which was the people that were
doing the best job in investigating the
S&L problem they were the ones at Mayo
Mario Renda they were the ones that had
the you know help with her McKay baby
and yet
Thornburgh disbands them right in the
middle of this this is absolutely
unbelievable there's a parallel that
George Bush came in as the drug czar and
they were doing a pretty good job of
preventing the laundering of drug money
through monitoring banks that the money
was going through so Bush becomes the
drug czar he's gonna lead the war on
drugs as vice president under Reagan the
first thing he does is to disband this
unit that was regulating the laundering
of drug money making it easy for drug
lords as well as CIA or mafia or anyone
to launder money so here's an organized
crime unit that was doing a good job in
monitoring certain organized crime
activities and the government eliminates
this I mean how can you explain this and
it sounds like the Mafia that's the
government they don't want to they don't
want the American people to find out how
the system really works and what you did
was open up a window so we could see the
system and they wanted to shut that
window real fast because of the American
people really knew and found out how the
system really works American people
wouldn't like it they succeeded
incredibly effectively too because I
think the the end result of the
investigation the pete was describing
put a chilling effect on journalists
respectable journalist mainstream
journalists could no longer go to their
editors and say hey I've got this story
I've been following up on this there
there are these connections there's mob
and CIA connections at this local SNL
they the editor would simply point to
this investigation see Congress has
already investigated there's nothing to
it drop it it had that effect I think on
a lot of people that did it it put an
onus on anybody who tried who tried to
pursue the story from that point on they
would be labeled conspiracy theorists
and or somehow you know completely
completely off the mark and their
analysis of what was going on
Congress had conducted this so-called
investigation into these allegations so
it's only the alternative press such as
the Texas observer where this has been
continued to be attracted well I think
Pete's continuing to do it through some
work of his own we have a book actually
coming out on this do you basically tell
the story of your investigation in your
forthcoming book yes the book is now at
the publisher Simon & Schuster and we're
playing with it now and trying to get it
into final form and you know if the CIA
is monkey and whether to buying the
scenes I wouldn't be surprised I know
that Simon & Schuster is is you know
dedicated to publishing good books and I
don't think that the CIA could stop them
from publishing this book and I think
the CIA knows that so they're probably
kind of laying low what do you think
getting back kind of looking at the big
picture what do you think this
experience and your information or
knowledge now says say about the United
States government and system economic
and political system that we have well
you know it's it's like I like it it to
sort of a puppet show this is the way I
look at the way the media you've got a
puppet show here and the puppets are
dancing and they're making shadows on
the wall and what the public gets is a
reporter sitting in audience describing
the shadows on the wall that's sort of
what we get what's really happening is
the shadows on the wall being made by
puppets for being manipulated by
puppeteers who are being told what to do
by the puppet master behind the curtain
you know and and that's the way I kind
of look at it and you know what we need
to do is find the puppet master you know
and describe how it all works instead of
just describing the shadows on the wall
and somehow that I think that's the way
the government works too
and the government or puppet they're the
common
other than hope it Reagan was a perfect
example of that everything that he said
and did was scripted I mean there's a
good example of a total puppet I'll just
give you a little teaser here one of the
main characters in my book is someone
that it's not a well-known figure but
he's one of most powerful men in the
country and I think that I can safely
say that he can tell both George Bush
and Lloyd Bentsen what to do and his
circle of people and we can both tell
them what to here we have Lloyd Bentsen
was powerful Democrats the former
Democratic vice-presidential candidate
and have George Bush the Republican
president and yet there is a there is a
group of small group of people in
Houston that can tell both these people
what to do and we don't even know who
these people are I mean do you see this
is a failure of journalism yes
there's no revelations into what the
power structure really is how it works
what it does etcetera it's a failure of
journalism it's a failure of government
it's it's you know Thomas Jefferson said
once if he had to decide between no
government or no newspapers he'd take no
government I mean our founding fathers
knew how important information was to
maintaining a free society and you know
we we started we've almost lost a
balance there we've just about lost the
battle although we have an alternative
press is probably the best in the world
places like in these times the
progressive the Texas observer TV shows
like alternative views get out of
tremendous amount of information
critical of the system the problem is
the limited audience absolutely I think
that there's a tendency in this country
because we're we're brought up with the
notion of a free press to assume that if
it's not in the New York Times or The
Washington Post it didn't happen these
are the these are the main organs and
these are the places that people turn to
for information and television news and
so if the if these stories don't
penetrate those media if they don't make
it into these in
these major publications people tend to
discount those stories they tend to be
shoved off to the side and and treated
as some kind of an anomaly or that
they're that there's no credibility
behind behind these things I've had I've
had innumerable opportunities to try to
explain this these stories to people and
they're common the common theme is why
why wouldn't the New York Times want to
tell us if it was true why wouldn't they
be out there covering this there's a
Pulitzer Prize in it for somebody well I
think Pete can tell you that there's not
a Pulitzer Prize in it that this is not
a story that the that the mainstream
organs want to tell right I don't think
anyone has ever won a Pulitzer Prize for
Investigative Reporting on the CIA
here's the most what was powerful
secretive institutions in our country
and it's really never you know been
investigated or the investigation of has
never been rewarded by journalists and
that brings us to the end of another
alternative views we're glad you could
join us again frequently here from
viewers who request a list of news
publications which we use on alternative
views and also a reading list for a US
power structure in the mass media if you
would like to have these send a stamped
self-addressed envelope to the
alternative Information Network p.o box
7 279 Austin Texas 7 8 7 1 3 you must
send a self-addressed stamped envelope
we also can provide you with information
on how to get some of the materials by
john stockwell the former CIA officer
and some other materials relating to the
national security state we would like to
thank our crew who helped make this
program possible Brian Lynch set the
lights and did the audio Mark Albin Lisa
Funke and Donald Herman where our camera
people and Barbara birch
was our director alternative views is a
production of the alternative
Information Network p.o box 7279
Austin Texas seven eight seven one three
so that's our address if you'd like to
write to us it would be mighty nice to
hear from you we get somewhere between
40 and 60 letters a week and we'd like
to find yours in there too
goodbye